# Evaluate an experiment analysis
___
1. The Sith Lords are concerned that their recruiting slogan, "Give In to Your Anger," isn't very effective. Darth Vader develops an alternative slogan, "Together We Can Rule the Galaxy." They compare the slogans on two groups of 50 captured droids each. In one group, Emperor Palpatine delivers the "Anger" slogan. In the other, Darth Vader presents the "Together" slogan. 20 droids convert to the Dark Side after hearing Palpatine's slogan, while only 5 droids convert after hearing Vader's. The Sith's data scientist concludes that "Anger" is a more effective slogan and should continue to be used.
##### The main problem with this experiment is that the slogans are being presented by the two different people. You don't know if they are converting because of the presenter or the slogan. To fix, you can have one person present both of the slogans. Or you could have each person present both slogans if you wanted to see what effect the bias actually has.

2. In the past, the Jedi have had difficulty with public relations. They send two envoys, Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu, to four friendly and four unfriendly planets respectively, with the goal of promoting favorable feelings toward the Jedi. Upon their return, the envoys learn that Jar Jar was much more effective than Windu: Over 75% of the people surveyed said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Jar Jar, while only 65% said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Windu. This makes Windu angry, because he is sure that he had a better success rate than Jar Jar on every planet. The Jedi choose Jar Jar to be their representative in the future.
##### This sounds like a case of Simpsons Paradox. I'm assuming that if Windu is correct, Jar Jar spoke with many more people on the the friendly planets than Windu did. This would explain why his overall success rate is higher even if per planet he had a lower success rate. To fix this, you would just need to make sure that each representative spoke to the same number of people on each planet.
3. A company with work sites in five different countries has sent you data on employee satisfaction rates for workers in Human Resources and workers in Information Technology. Most HR workers are concentrated in three of the countries, while IT workers are equally distributed across worksites. The company requests a report on satisfaction for each job type. You calculate average job satisfaction for HR and for IT and present the report.
##### This study doesn't take location into consideration at all which is a big mistake. In addition to job function, there will be lots of work environment factors that affect job satisfaction. A better way to organize the study would be to group the results by location as well as job function. 
4. When people install the Happy Days Fitness Tracker app, they are asked to "opt in" to a data collection scheme where their level of physical activity data is automatically sent to the company for product research purposes. During your interview with the company, they tell you that the app is very effective because after installing the app, the data show that people's activity levels rise steadily.
##### This claim is not really backed by a study, and by using this observation as proof of the app's effectiveness they're ignoring all of the people who don't opt in to the data collection. Therefore it doesn't represent the population of all app users. A better way would be to state that anonymous data will be collected in the user agreement, and do so automatically, and provide a way to opt out if they want.  
5. To prevent cheating, a teacher writes three versions of a test. She stacks the three versions together, first all copies of Version A, then all copies of Version B, then all copies of Version C. As students arrive for the exam, each student takes a test. When grading the test, the teacher finds that students who took Version B scored higher than students who took either Version A or Version C. She concludes from this that Version B is easier, and discards it.
##### The problem with this method is that all of the tests were stacked in order. This is an issue because there could be some correlation between when a student enters the class and how they perform. Maybe they all came from a different class together, or maybe they're all friends and walked in together, and they did cheat. To fix this, the different tests should have been mixed up so they were randomly assigned. 
